'''JAIME IVAN TONG'''<br/>
email: kasnar2020@gmail.com<br/>
phone: 415.699.2469

=====QUALIFICATIONS=====<br/>
2 years of Storage Analyst and Automation Scripting<br/>
3 years of Unix System Administration experience<br/>
4 years IT/ Residential Network techinician UC Santa Cruz<br/>

=====EDUCATION=====<br/>
B.A. Art               June ‘04-06

University of California, Santa Cruz<br/>

Beginning Perl Class    Sept. ‘07-Nov. ‘07<br/>
Santa Clara Adult Education<br/>

Symantec Veritas Netbackup 6.0 (Windows)<br/>
Symantec Corporation, Mountain View March ‘07<br/>

=====WORK EXPERIENCE=====<br/>
'''July ‘11- Present     Tech Yahoo, Storage Engineer'''<br/>
'''Yahoo (YHOO), Sunnyvale, CA'''<br/>

:*Generate and forecast quarterly reports for finance team and storage team on media tape usage, storage consumption, and global inventories.
:*Worked on Rewire Project: Helped track down idle systems that need to be decommissioned or repurposed.  Submit tickets or Update sql database for missing data or inaccuracy.
:*Getting Fit Project: Wrote Perl script to reduce the storage cost in off-sited containers, reuse and destroy media tapes that have expired retention. Helped two team members to forecast cost saving in media tape. Documented the script usage and the calculation which derives the cost saving and forecast.
:*Created Perl script to automate and send out emails to admin on backups that have consecutive fails. Streamline failed backup submitted by admins to rerun backup jobs.
:*Designed a user friendly perl script that generate report for Storage Architecture team. Script enables user to forecast, upgrade, repurpose and calculate the types of disk model, rpm, disk size by filers or by colo region used.


'''Oct ‘10 – July '11        TalentBurst Yahoo, Storage Analyst'''<br/>
'''Yahoo (YHOO), Sunnyvale, CA'''<br/>

:*Create and design Perl scripts to clean up global database
:*Work on tickets submitted by finance team or storage team for forecasting or track down servers to decommission.
:*Verify global database on filer status by writing a Perl Ping script.
:*Submit tickets or update sql database on bugs found or inaccuracy of internal reporting tools.


'''Jan ‘07 – Feb '10        UNIX System Administrator/Scripting Automation,  IT Department'''<br/>
'''Marvell Semiconductor Inc. (MRVL), Sunnyvale, CA'''<br/>

:*Primary administrator for all global engineering backup and Perl script automation to maintain an accurate database of tapes store on-site and off-site
::*Designed, proposed, site planned and managed the deployment of a SL3000 library (3,000 tapes LT0-4) in Marvell Headquarter. Worked closely with Sun field engineer to assemble the library in the data center. Setup 2 Cisco SAN switch for the SL3000 to backup multiple EMC NSX, Netapp and Agami filers. Installed, configured, and on-going support for Veritas Netbackup 6.5.x. Completed the project in 4 weeks and provided a robust disaster recovery system for the catalog backup.
::*Maintain multiple tape libraries ranging from SL500, L700e, SL3000 to backup more than 80TB/ week.
:::*Upgraded library's expansions and firmware for tape drives (AIT-2, AIT-3, LT0-3, LT0-4). Successfully migrated job policies and catalog from one library server to another. Help remote-sites (Arizona, Shanghai, Germany) on building a strong library infrastructure with various Veritas Netbackup 6.x platforms to suite their needs.
:::*Introduced remote-sites the importance of job retention policies, and configuring a multi-pathing for all hosts to prevent single points of failures as much as possible.
:::*Assisted remote-sites with libraries retirements and proper documentations to gracefully shutdown libraries and bring up libraries after a data center relocation.
::*Wrote Perl scripts and designed web interfaces to automate many tasks:
:::*created a monitoring tool, to track data volumes and usage to determine how often it needs to be backed up to reduce unnecessary expenditure in media tapes.
:::*helped to develop a barcode scanning script with a team member to improve the efficiency of large quantity of tape off-site and reduce the time spent to check for errors.
:::*utilized data collected into MySQL database to graph out diagrams of weekly/ monthly data growth which enable users to forecast and plan ahead for capacity planning.
:::*developed a disaster recovery script to pin point the exact media barcode needed to recover the lost data.
::*Collaborated with a team member to re-negotiated media tape prices each quarter saving $300k for the past 3 years. Saved the company over $150k in a 6 month period, by implementing a new recycling retention policy and reducing the amount of tapes needed to be stored off-site.
::*Assisted team member to resolved critical SOX compliance restores and successfully restored all the data before the deadline. Was chosen to manage all crucial restores in Marvell headquarter and in remote-sites (Arizona, India).
::*Trained new hires in all aspects of server backup (Netvault, Netbackup). Familiarized trainees with standard procedures, tape purchase, tape off-site, and Window/Oracle SOX compliance backup.


'''Sept ‘05 – Nov '05     UCSC RESNET (Residential Network)'''<br/>
'''University of Santa Cruz, CA'''<br/>

:*Selected as head technical trainer for new hires.
:*Managed three technicians in team specializing in complete network setup (router/nic driver setup/ network wiring).
:*On-site and off-site virus support for UCSC students using PC/ MAC/ laptops.
:*Perform data recovery with external USB hard drive.
:*Presented incoming students virus scanning tools to use and how to troubleshoot their own network connection.
:*Conducted surveys and questions from incoming students to improve on our quality of service.
:*Setup RESNET office for weekend support.


'''Feb. ‘05 – May '05     UCSC CTSS DEPARTMENT (Contract Technical Support Service)'''<br/>
'''University of Santa Cruz, CA'''<br/>

:*Responsible for maintaining server's tape backup every week. (AIT-2, AIT-3 tapes).
:*Help rack mount servers, manage helpdesk tickets, and assign tickets to 2 other IT technicians.
:*On call troubleshooting, backups, and service repair for faculties on/off campus.
:*Assisted two IT technicians on cabling, software/hardware upgrades of labs on the campus.
:* Monitored servers status using Big Brother.
:*Restock computer supplies with purchase approval.
:*Optimized and duplicated backup copies of software applications for team.


'''Sept. ‘04 – Jan. '05     UCSC RESNET (Residential Network)'''<br/>
'''University of Santa Cruz, CA'''<br/>

:*Trained for two weeks prior to the start of school.
:*Learned to apply the rules/policies of the University System in troubleshooting student computers.
:*Provided 7 days on-site support for students and step by step walk through on the phone.


'''‘97 – ‘98     Technician Assistant/Sales Representative     COMPUTER 5000'''<br/>
'''San Francisco, CA'''<br/>

:*Repaired and assembled Desktop PCs..
:*Responsible for restocking computer inventories.
:*Provided on-site customer support, cashiering and built latest computer design for window display.


=====SOFTWARE EXPERIENCE=====<br/>
Operating Systems
Ubuntu 7.04,7.10,9.04,10.04 Server, Desktop
Sun Solaris 9,10
RedHat 5, Fedora
Windows 2000,2003 Server, XP

=====Application Software=====<br/>
Veritas NetBackup 3.4, 4.5, 5.0, 6.5 (Windows and Unix)
Veritas Netbackup Vault Extension
Bakbone NetVault 6, 7
Veritas BackupExec 5
MySQL
Joomla, Uwiki,Plone
Perl Scripting
HTML